sim/portrayal3d/simple

This package holds 3D SimplePortrayals for displaying all sorts of 
objects in various Fields.  Theses SimplePortrayals are registered for 
various objects in the FieldPortrayals and called upon to portray those 
objects when asked.

The SimplePortrayals come in two basic forms: "basic" simple portrayals 
and "wrapper" portrayals.  Wrapper portrayals have (typically) one 
subsidiary simple portrayal and do some extra functionality, such as 
labelling the simple portrayal.  Many simple portrayals can be set up to 
do something special when the object is selected with the mouse: wrapper 
portrayals in particular are designed to make this easy so (for example) 
when you click on an object in the window, a label appears under it, 
then disappears when you click elsewhere.


Arrow.java

An auxiliary class used for drawing arrows.  Usually you'd ignore this.


Axes.java

An auxiliary class used for drawing axes (by using Arrow.java).  Usually 
you'd ignore this.


PrimitivePortrayal3D.java

The abstract superclass of SimplePortrayals which do their job using 
Java3D Primitives or Shape3D objects.


ConePortrayal3D.java

A PrimitivePortrayal3D subclass which draws Cones.


CubePortrayal3D.java

A PrimitivePortrayal3D subclass which draws Cubes.


CylinderPortrayal3D.java

A PrimitivePortrayal3D subclass which draws Cylinders.


SpherePortrayal3D.java

A PrimitivePortrayal3D subclass which draws Spheres.


Shape3DPortrayal3D.java

A PrimitivePortrayal3D subclass which draws arbitrary Shape3D objects.


BoxPortrayal3D.java

A SimplePortrayal3D which draws boxes (cubes).  It's faster than 
CubePortrayal3D but has certain idiosyncracies: it may go away in a 
while.


ImagePortrayal3D.java

A SimplePortrayal3D which draws squares with images on them.


LightPortrayal3D.java

A SimplePortrayal3D which represents objects as Java3D light elements.  
Can be added to a scene without the need of an underlying field or 
object (and indeed ignores the position of the object).


SharedGroupPortrayal3D.java

A SimplePortrayal3D subclass which draws Java3D SharedGroup objects.


WireFrameBoxPortrayal3D.java

A SimplePortrayal3D subclass which draws a wireframe box, often used to 
denote the boundaries of a model.  Can be added to the scene without the 
need of an underlying field or object (and indeed ignores the position 
of the object).


ValuePortrayal3D.java

A special version of Shape3DPortrayal3D, intended for use only with 
ValueGridPortrayal3D, which draws "values" (integers, doubles, etc.) as 
cubes of certain colors.


CircledPortrayal3D.java

A wrapper portrayal which can draw a large semitransparent sphere around 
the object to highlight it.


LabelledPortrayal3D.java

A wrapper portrayal which can add a textual label to the object.


TransformedPortrayal3D.java

A wrapper portrayal which can transform (scale, rotate, translate) the 
underlying portrayal as desired.

