sim/util/gui

This package holds utility classes on which MASON relies to do GUI 
tasks, but which don't have anything to do with MASON per se.  All of 
these classes can be extracted and used for other tasks and don't rely 
on anything outside of sim/util.


Classes:


ColorMap.java

An abstract superclass for objects which can map double values to colors.


SimpleColorMap.java

A concrete implementation of ColorMap which maps doubles to colors in 
two ways: either by interpolating them as ranges; or (if they're 
integers) looking them up in a lookup table.


AbstractScrollable.java

An abstract JPanel which implements most of the Scrollable interface, 
making it easy to create anonymous subclasses which are Scrollable.


ColorWell.java

A "Color Well", sort of like MacOS X's color well widget.  And I mean 
*sort of* -- it's much more rudimentary.  Basically it's a button 
holding a color and when you click on it the color panel pops up and you 
can change the color.


DialogToolTip.java

A simple class which implements ToolTips using a JDialog.  Used for 
classes (like Canvas3D) which do not support Swing ToolTips.


DisclosurePanel.java

A label with a little "disclosure" button to the left of it (on OS X, 
it's a small triangle).  Clicking on the button expands the label into a 
full JPanel, notionally to provide more information.  Clicking again 
reduces to the basic label.


HTMLBrowser.java

A simple HTML browser.


LabelledList.java

A grid structure in which elements can be added, one per row, with labels 
which appear to their left.  (Actually rows with five different things 
can be added; but usually it's just two or three).


MiniHistogram.java

A simple histogram intended to fit within the space of one text row.  
Presently used only in the SocialNets MASON package.  But it's a cute 
little class.


MovieMaker.java

A GUI wrapper making it easy to create movies from collections of 
snapshots of a JComponent.  Uses the sim/util/media package to do most 
of its dirty work.


NumberTextField.java

A text field and special widget for storing numbers and incrementing, 
decrementing, or resetting them.


PropertyField.java

A text field which makes it easy to store properties or values and 
manipulate them.  If they're numbers, uses a widget like 
NumberTextField.  If they're booleans, appears as a checkbox.  Other 
data types have their own special features.



Other Files:


BellyButton.png		A "belly button" similar to the one on the Newton
BellyButtonPressed.png	A "pressed" "belly button"
LeftArrow.png		A left arrow similar to the up-arrow on the Newton
LeftArrowPressed.png	A "pressed" left arrow
RightArrow.png		A right arrow similar to the down-arrow on the Newton
RightArrowPressed.png	A "pressed" down arrow

